# Plaincast

**This project is unmaintained**. Feel free to fork it and take over maintainership if you're interested in using it.

This is a small [DIAL](http://www.dial-multiscreen.org) server that emulates
Chromecast-like devices, and implements the YouTube app. It only renders the
audio, not the video, so it is very lightweight and can run headless.

It can be used as media server, for example on the [Raspberry
Pi](http://www.raspberrypi.org/).

## Installation

I'm going to assume you're running Linux for this installation guide, preferably
Debian Jessie (or newer when their time comes). Debian before Jessie contains
too old versions of certain packages.

First, make sure you have the needed dependencies installed:

 *  golang 1.3 (1.1+ might also work, but 1.0 certainly doesn't)
 *  libmpv-dev
 *  youtube-dl (see also 'notes on youtube-dl' below)

These can be installed in one go under Debian Jessie:

    $ sudo apt-get install golang libmpv-dev youtube-dl

If you haven't already set up a Go workspace, create one now. Some people like
to set it to their home directory, but you can also set it to a separate
directory. In any case, set the environment variable `$GOROOT` to this path:

    $ mkdir golang
    $ cd golang
    $ export GOPATH="`pwd`"

Then get the required packages and compile:

    $ go get -u github.com/aykevl/plaincast

To run the server, run the executable `bin/plaincast` relative to your Go
workspace. Any Android phone with YouTube app (or possibly iPhone, but I haven't
tested) on the same network should recognize the server and it should be
possible to play the audio of videos on it. The Chrome extension doesn't yet
work.

    $ bin/plaincast

## Notes on youtube-dl

`youtube-dl` is often too old to be used for downloading YouTube streams. You
can try to run `youtube-dl -U`, but it may say that it won't update because it
has been installed via a package manager. To fix this, uninstall youtube-dl, and
install it via pip. The steps required depend on the version of Python in your
`$PATH` variable. Check it with:

    $ python --version

Install using pip for **Python 2** (usually version 2.7.x), on Debian stretch
and below:

    $ sudo apt-get remove youtube-dl
    $ sudo apt-get install python-pip
    $ sudo pip2 install youtube-dl

Install using pip3 for **Python 3** (version 3.x). Only required when you have
configured the `python` binary to point to Python 3, or maybe on newer versions
of Debian.

    $ sudo apt-get remove youtube-dl
    $ sudo apt-get install python3-pip
    $ sudo pip3 install youtube-dl

Afterwards, you can update youtube-dl using:

    $ sudo pip install --upgrade youtube-dl

Or for Python 3:

    $ sudo pip3 install --upgrade youtube-dl

It is advisable to run this regularly as it has to keep up with YouTube updates.
Certainly first try updating `youtube-dl` when plaincast stops working.

## Docker

Both `Dockerfile` and Docker Compose manifest are provided. The former builds
a Docker image with the program binary built from local code and the required
build dependencies. The Docker image also includes a recent `youtube-dl`
version. This will avoid the need of installing a recent version for the local
OS and version on the host, thus avoiding the risks of installing any software.
The [Docker Compose manifest](./docker-compose.yml) contains the configuration
settings needed to launch a Docker container.
To run the Docker image, just run:

    $ docker-compose up --build --force-recreate

## Known issues

 *  So far, only DIAL is implemented, so the Chrome extension for Chromecast
    doesn't work yet (I suspect it uses mDNS, which is the successor of DIAL on
    Chromecast).

## Thanks

I would like to thank the creators of
[leapcast](https://github.com/dz0ny/leapcast). Leapcast is a Chromecast
emulator, which was essential in the process of reverse-engineering the YouTube
protocol and better understanding the DIAL protocol.
